All right.
Welcome to the next section of the course.
This section is called Emitting Events, so we're not going to build out any new user features in this
section of the course.
But we are going to learn about a feature, a view called events.
Events allow a child component to send out a message that is intercepted by its parent.
So we know that a parent component can pass data down to a child using props, but we never learned
about that relationship in reverse.
How can a child inform a parent component of some kind of change?
And the way it does that in view is using a special feature called Events.
So here's how we're going to get to a lesson where we can actually utilize events.
Here I am in my job search form component, and you'll notice that we have two separate input fields
for our job role as well as our job location.
And let's say I propose that we move this input to its own separate reusable component.
I'd like to call that component text input.
So one advantage of doing so is that we can isolate the common styles for a specific text input to its
own reusable shared view component.
Remember, the goal of you or any component library is to build lots of small things that we can then
reuse over and over.
And you'll notice here, for example, that every time we write our manual input in line here, we have
to, for example, configure the same styles we can see here on line 22 and here on line 44 that we
have the exact same styles.
So if we decide to create ten inputs all over the app and they have the same style, we are creating
lots of duplication and if tomorrow we decide that the styles have to change, well then we'd have to
edit them in ten different places.
In comparison, if we create a reusable component and use it in ten different places, well then we
only have to edit the styles once in that actual component.
It's the same exact idea as with our action button component, which we worked on a few sections ago
for those kind of common elements, such as buttons or inputs, many developers like to create separate,
shared, reusable components, and I propose for now that we do the same thing here.
Now, is it really worth doing this when you only have two uses of input throughout the app?
Not really.
Maybe in the real world you might wait for a couple more cases where the duplication starts to become
a problem and a pain point.
But of course this is not exactly the real world and this will allow us to actually learn more about
a key view concept.
So for now, let's say we will create a reusable input component and I'm going to call it text input.
So right here, I think a really good place to put this new component is in our shared directory because
this is where we put all of those kind of common, shared universal components that can appear in lots
of different other locations or features.
So here I'm going to create my text input, that view component.
And of course, in there, I'm going to create a template tag.
And I'm going to open this component on the right hand side.
And I think the easiest thing to do for now is to copy over a sample input from our job search form
component.
So I'm going to copy over this one as a sample one.
And we, of course will modify it in just a second.
But this is a good place to start.
And before we forget, let's also create our script section and export default our configuration object.
For this component.
I will give it a name of text input.
Okay.
So what can we keep and what can we customize with what we have right here in our template?
Well, I propose that we actually get rid of the model for now and go with our more old school approach
of using the manual to a data binding.
So we'll set up the V bind to a data property on this data on this text input component.
And we also will set up an event handler using the V on directive.
And this will allow us to isolate for now the logic of the data and a changing to just an individual
text input component.
I know V model is a little bit cleaner, but the advantage of the more long form way is that it offers
us an ability to customize more of those operations that happen.
We'll see how we do that in a lesson or two.
So for now, just trust me and believe that my intentions are good.
So we're going to get rid of the model here and we're going to introduce a data property to store the
components entered value.
So right here I will create a data method.
And in here we're going to return our JavaScript object.
And for now, I'm going to call the property that's going to store whatever happens to be entered.
I'm going to store that in a property called value.
And of course, I will initialize it to an empty string.
So right here, what I'm going to do is create a V bind directive using the colon syntax.
And I want to connect to the input elements, value attribute, and I want that to be dynamically set
by Vue.
And I want Vue to bind it to the value of my value data property.
Kind of confusing again because the attribute in HTML is called value and the name of our data property
is also called value.
But hopefully this makes sense from the multiple times we've used v bind before.
Okay.
Then we get to placeholder.
Placeholder is an interesting one because we can no longer always have the string software engineer
because the placeholder text is going to vary for every input component that we render.
Well, when we have that kind of variance, much like when we had that variance in the action button
text a few seconds ago, the way we can solve this problem is by providing a prop to the component.
Remember, a prop is just an argument that we pass from the parent component to the child component.
So every time job search form renders a text input, for example, it can provide the placeholder value.
All right, so how do we set up props?
Well, there's a couple steps we need to take.
First step, we need to set up our validation.
So right here, in my view, configuration object, I can set up my props.
Keep.
All right.
And as a reminder, the way we do this is we have a property here for every prop that we expect to get
or receive.
Inside the text input component.
So I expect to get a prop called placeholder.
That makes sense since it matches what I want to populate.
So the parent will provide a placeholder prop and we can provide a JavaScript object here to configure
how this prop works.
We can provide the type property to specify that the placeholder will be a string.
So type string.
Then you may recall we have this required property which specifies if it is required or not.
Let's say that a placeholder is optional because we don't always need to provide it to an input field.
And input field can work without a placeholder.
So I will make this false and whenever I set required to false, I do have to provide a default value
just in case the parent does not provide anything.
So for default I'll just do an empty string.
So if the parent component does not provide a placeholder prop, we're going to fall back to an empty
string.
And that placeholder will just be basically nothing within the input field.
So the user will see no actual placeholder whatsoever.
All right.
So now we want to connect this placeholder prop to this placeholder attribute on our HTML element.
So how do we connect a piece of data to an H HTML attribute?
We do that using V bind.
It's the exact same thing we did with value right here, except we're no longer binding to a data property.
We're binding to a prop that we're going to get from our parent.
So let me, in fact, drag this placeholder a little bit up.
And we're going to bind using the V bind syntax of a colon.
And so here I can provide some kind of dynamic reference to some kind of dynamic property.
It can be on our data.
That's totally fine.
But in this case, it's going to be on our props and it's going to be called placeholder.
So whatever is the current value of the placeholder prop that we get from the parent, we're going to
connect that to the placeholder attribute on our input element so that it will display that from the
parent.
All right.
We're going to keep the class the way it is.
That's the style we want.
And then, of course, the only other thing we need to add is the handling whenever the user types a
value because we need to manually sync the data property and our and our HTML element.
Right.
We talked about this issue earlier in the course where we are going to sync our data with our value.
So if we change our data, our value inside the input will change.
But it doesn't work the same way in reverse.
So as a reminder, the way we do that is by creating a V on event and we can do V on followed by the
name of the event.
And that event is called input.
And of course the way we can create a shortcut for this is replacing this with an app sign.
So at input, whenever the user types a letter, the input element will trigger an input event.
And then we specify the method that Vue should invoke in that scenario.
We're going to call that method handle input.
The name is entirely up to us, but let's call it handle input.
That makes sense to me.
And so we need to define a method called handle input.
We do so in a special methods property within my view configuration object.
So here in my methods object, I define a handle input method.
And as you may recall, Vue will automatically pass an event object to this method.
We can give that argument whatever parameter we want, but we typically will call it event with a dollar
sign, and on that event object we're going to have a target object and on that object we're going to
have a value property.
And that represents the latest string that the user has typed into the input field, whatever it is.
So the first time, these are types of character, it's just going to be one character.
When the user types another character, we're going to trigger another event with the latest string
of two characters, etc. So once we get this, we need to of course overwrite our component's local
data with that value.
So of course using the this keyword, I can reference any data property and I want my value data property
and that's what I want to overwrite with the latest event information, the latest event input that
video is going to give to me in the event object.
Okay, so this is our basic configuration for our text input component.
And the very next lesson, we're going to start using it within our job search form.